# 2-10 Uniform-cost search criteria

So now how about uniform-cost search criteria.
 any form-cost search is guided by the path, cost
rather than the depth of the search,
which makes the complexity calculation a little bit,
is less trivial than the regular BFS.

首先, is it complete?
是完全的． Assuming that the solution has a finite cost.
The problem would be complete.
 So how about the time complexity?
 Remember for BFS, we had a time complexity
 of-- which is O of b to d, where b is the branching factor
 and d is the depth of the solution.
 So, typically, we have the 搜索空间.
 It's a 搜索树.
 And we have a solution at some level d.
 And BFS search, again, we do a level wise search until it actually reach the level d
 where the solution is.
 A uniform-cost search would not really do it in such
 a level wise. It's going to be a little bit kind
 of drag because it's going to look at-- it's going
 to still do some kind of-- it's going to be until it reaches
 the level of the solution.
 Actually, here how can we define d?
 D is not really defined at a specific level
 because they're are going to move to the search space
 based on different costs, so going to estimate it.
 And the way to estimated is-- first of all,
 let's suppose that C* is actually the cost
 of the optimal solution.

 So the optimal solution would really have some, let's say,
 number of kilometers.
 Suppose also that each action cost
 is bounded so we have-- every action
 would cost at least epsilon.
 Given C* and epsilon, we could estimate the effective depth,
 which is roughly C* divided by epsilon.
 We need actually to-- here the idea is to be able
 to estimate-- instead of d, we're going to have C* divided
 by epsilon, which is an estimation of the depth
 of the solution based on our search, based on the costs.
 OK.
 So, in this case, instead of O of b to the d,
 we're going to have a cost, in this case,
 of b to C* divided by epsilon.
 So this is just based on what we estimated
 as the depth of the solution given this strategy.
 Similarly, we also estimate the space complexity
 using this estimation of the depth of the search.
 So for space complexity in the regular BFS,
 we had also b to the d.
 The d now is also replaced by C* divided by epsilon,
 which represent our estimation of the depth.

 Is the solution optimal?
 Yes, it is.
 It's going to really search for all the costs
 until it finds the least cost path if there is a solution.


 So implementation, as we said, it's
 also a **queue** just like the BFS.
 But it's, in this case, what we call a **priority queue** that
 is ordered by the path cost based on the cost function
 g(n), which is the lowest first, which is actually
 implemented as a heap. So that was for the complexity.

 Uniform-cost search has great features
 that it is complete and optimal.
 However, it also explores the space in every direction
 because no information about the goal is provided.
 So we are prioritizing, in this case, not by depth
 but backed by cost, which means that suppose
 we have a start state here and the goal is here.
 What would happen is that the search will go around the start
 by, let's say for the map, increasing
 the length of the radius.
 So we're going to look around and around.
 So the search will be really exploring the area
 and getting bigger and bigger in terms of the search
 until we hit the goal g.
 So you could see that that's really
 a waste of resources or a waste of time in searching
 around the start space.
 And we would love to really use some information about the goal
 test in order to goal release trader to this goal
 rather than exploring and wasting time
 looking around based on the cost.




