# 2-11 例题

试回答以下结点的访问顺序,以及BFS, DFS和UCS算法分别返回的路径．
So the goal here is to go from the node S start,
to the node goal.
Right, so we're going to see with different strategy
how it works.
So let's start with BFS.
So remember for BFS we have a queue
and we can put the elements in the queue to be explored.
 So I'm going to in-queue from this side
 and dequeue from this side.
 So the first element is S, so we start with S. From S I'm
 going to add the elements, the children of S, ABC,
 into the queue.
 So the next step is to inqueue ABC in this order,
 in the lexicographic order.
 S is now visited because we have already
 explored-- added its children in the queue.
 So S will become in the list of order if it visit.
 Is highlighted here in read so as
 to see that it's actually-- it left the queue.
 All right, the next element to explore is A.
 So when we explore A, we're going to add A children.
 And the A has only D as children.
 So we're going to add D. Afterwards,
 after D, the next element to explore is B,
 so we're going to take B. The queue B from the queue.
 B has D, G, and E. So D and E are already in the fringe,
 we're going to add G.
 The next element to explore is C. C has elements E, right.
 But E is already in the frame, we do nothing.
 Then we end with the queue D. D has children F.
 So we are going to add F to the list.
 Then we dequeue the next one, which
 is E. It has H. We going to add H. Then from the next element
 is G. So dequeue G. And we found out
 that this is the goal that you want to achieve.
 So the final path is the shallowest path,
 which would be S, B and G, that lead from the start
 to the goal.
 And the order of visit is S, A, B, C, D, E, and G.
 This is the status of the queue at the end.
 F and H were not dequeued, because G has already
 been found.
 So about DFS?
 Depth first search.
 So remember depth first search would explore a footpath.
 We use a stack to present, or to put the nodes that are
 in the fringe, in the frontier.
 So the stack would-- we assume in this case
 that we're going to push them in this way,
 and pop them from this way.
 So push we add an element in the stack.
 On, you know, in this direction.
 And we pop or extract and explore the elements out
 in this direction.
 The first step.
 Once we pop S we're going to add S children to the stack.
 So we're going to push the elements ABC in the stack,
 but we're going to do that in the reverse lexicographic
 order, and the main reason is that we want to pop them out
 in lexicographic order.
 So I'm going to push them as CBA,
 and we're going to pop them out as ABC.
 That's the trick.
 All right.
 So the next element to pop now is A. So A has D as a child.
 So I'm going to add--
 push D in the stack afterwards.
 So A is considered as visited.
 The next element to pop is D. D has F as a child.
 B has already been added earlier.
 OK so remember we check that it wasn't already
 visited or explored.
 Then the next element to pop is F. F has two children, G and E.
 We put them again in reverse lexicographic order,
 so it's going to be-- we are going to push G then push E.
 And the next step is to explore the next to pop, the E.
 The E popped will bring its child H, so going to H to--
 push the H in the stack.
 Then the next element is to pop H. Once we pop H,
 H will have as children G and E, but they're already actually
 in the list or explored.
 So we are going to then--
 since H now is explored, E explored,
 we going to pop to G. Which turned out actually
 to be the goal.
 And we are done with the process.
 The full path, that's going all the way down
 through to the goal, is S, A, D, F, and G.
 But nodes that were explored are these nodes here.
 So how about UCS?
 In UCS we have a kind of BFS, but the priority
 is going by cost, not by depth.
 So initially we're going to put S, this start element,
 into the priority queue.
 So remember we're going to have a priority,
 in which each element is unaffected by the cost
 to that element.
 So initially we don't-- we have to spend zero dollars,
 or zero kilometers.
 To reach S, so S we'll be able to do with zero.
 OK.
 So I'm going to enqueue from this and dequeue from this.
 All right the next step to dequeue
 S0, so I'm going dequeue S0 and add its children.
 So the next step is to add the elements A, B,
 and C. A has a cost of three, B has a cost of six,
 C has a cost of two.
 So we're going to put them in this decreasing in order
 of costs.
 The next element to dequeue is C2.
 C2 will add the element E3, and we squeeze it
 between and A3 and B6, because it has a lower cost than B6.
 Right?
 So C2 has as an element--
 and now is dequeued, it's added to the order of visit.
 Next to dequeue is A3.
 A3 has a path of 3 to D. Right?
 So we're going to add D6 to the list.

 Now we dequeue E. So once we dequeue
 E we realize it's actually too rich.
 B, we have another path that's just 2 plus 1
 plus 2, which is 5, so OK, we can update the path to go to B.
 Initially it was 6 going from S. Now it's 5 going from this path
 here.
 OK?
 So now we have to dequeue the next elements.
 Next element is B. B5.
 So once we dequeue B5 we add the missing elements from those
 who are already in the queue.
 We don't add them.
 Those who are need to update we decreased the cost, et cetera.
 OK.
 So that would dequeue D6.
 D6 will add whatever it was not there already.
 And then they we explore H8.
 H8 had as children G. G is already there.
 And we don't have a better choice than G
 And then we get dequeue F9.
 F9 has also another child, which has a child which
 is G. We don't also change it, because to go through F9
 we have a larger cost here.
 So now we dequeue a G
 Once we dequeue D14 we are reaching our goal,
 and the path would be actually the shortest, path
 or the lowest cost path, which would be S, C, E, B, and then
 G. So this will be B2, plus 1 plus 2



