# 2.12--Map Example

学习目的：

1.  阐明DFS, BFS,和 UCS如何工作．
2.  作为队列或栈的fringe该如何维护

本节学习一个具体例子．


以地图为例，再次阐述BFS, DFS和UCS.
 我们这里有一幅图．我们做图形搜索,从LV开始到Calgary去.
 首先，我们用BFS来研究这个问题.

我们回忆一下, BFS沿层进行搜索.
 我们将从Las Vegas开始.
 从 Las Vegas出发, 我们可以走Los Angeles，或者 Salt Lake
 City.
 因此，我们将探索that按字母顺序.
 即Salt Lake City or Los Angeles.
这将是BFS的第一层.

现在从Los Angeles, 我们将去探索的结点是Phoenix, El Paso,或San
 Francisco.

我们再次以字母顺序排列之．
 El Paso, Phoenix或 San Francisco.

 另一方面, 对Salt Lake City, 待探索的城市为：Denver ， Helena 或者 Portland.
 我们不再增加Las Vegas,　因为它已经被探索过.


下一步-- 我们搜索了第一层, 正在搜索第二层,现在我们
 准备去El Paso.
 El Paso有一个子结点Los Angeles,它已经在那里了.
 It has Dallas和Santa Fe.
 我们将探索Dallas和 Santa Fe　(SFe).

 So now how about Phoenix?
 So Phoenix has as children Santa Fe, which is already there.
 It has as children Denver, which is already here.
 And it has-- that's pretty much it.
 So, we are not going to explore Phoenix any more.
 So how about San Francisco?
 San Francisco has Salt Lake City.
 It's here.
 It has Portland, which is here.
 And it has Los Angeles, which is already also as well explored.
 So the search on this side is actually--
 for this third level here is over.
 We're going to go to the next level.
 From Denver, we can go-- where is Denver?
 So, Denver is here.
 We can go to Salt Lake City back, no. ?
 It's already explored.
 They're going to explore Omaha or Kansas City.
 So I'm going to put Kansas City and Omaha.
 OK?
 So from Kansas, then, for the next level,
 so it's going to be for the city of Helena,
 we are going to explore the city of Calgary.
 And bingo, we found Calgary.
 All right?
 So the search was done technically
 going level by level, right?
 And remember that we are not adding
 an element in the exploration if an element was already explored
 or it's already in the fringe to be explored.
 And for your reference, you have the order of visit
 that's given in this path here that's actually
 the order in which we have been exploring the graph
 to reach Calgary.
 All right?
 So you see how we are exploring level by level.
 At the end, we are going to reach Calgary
 at the third level in the search.
 So, how about DFS?
 DFS maybe is easier to explain.
 We are going to go all the way deep into the same path.
 So we are going to again assume we
 are going from the city of Las Vegas to the city of Calgary.
 But we are going to go probably all over the place
 before we go there.
 So because of how DFS works, so DFS explores the full path.
 Let's see.
 So from Las Vegas, we're going to-- remember,
 we are going to put the elements in the stack
 in reverse lexicographic order, right?
 So from Las Vegas, we are going to explore the city of-- we
 could do Salt Lake City or Los Angeles.
 We'll start with Los Angeles.
 So the children are Salt Lake City and Los Angeles.
 But because of this, we're going to start with Los Angeles.
 So from Los Angeles, we are going
 to go even deeper, so explore the element
 of the children of Los Angeles.
 We have San Francisco, Phoenix and El Paso.
 El Paso is first, so it's going to be El Paso.
 From El Paso, we are going to either go to Santa Fe or Dallas
 or Los Angeles.
 So it's going to be either Santa Fe or Dallas.
 So let's start with Dallas.
 And so on and so forth.
 So when we reach New Orleans, we are
 going to have to go either to Miami or to Atlanta.
 And we'll start with Atlanta.
 From Atlanta, we can go to Charleston.
 From Charleston, we could either go to Raleigh or to Miami,
 but both of them were added earlier by actually Atlanta.
 So we are not going to go the Charleston way.
 So we are going to go from Atlanta to Nashville
 to Saint Louis to Chicago, Duluth, Helena,
 and the city of Calgary.
 So for reference, again, I give the order
 of visit of the different cities in the DFS search.
 So for UCS, we are going to do BFS.
 And we take care of the cost in this time.
 So the cost to a city will be how much
 we spent so far, how many kilometers are there
 to reach the city.
 So for example, we start with Las Vegas.
 From Las Vegas-- so again, we want to go from Las Vegas
 to Calgary.


从 Las Vegas, 我们可以取either 60--
 a route of 65, a route of
 So I'm going to pick Los Angeles first.
 So from Los Angeles, I can go either
 to Phoenix, El Paso, or San Francisco.
 And the shortest would be to go through San Francisco, right?
 But so far, I have 66 plus 100, or 66 plus 109, or 66 plus
 So I picked this path first.
 OK?

 The next one would be to go into-- the next one
 would be Salt Lake City.
 So, it's going to be
 From Salt Lake City, I could go to Denver, to Helena,
 or to Portland.
 So I'm going to sum up the costs.
 And whenever I need to move to another direction
 for the search, I'll do that based on the costs.
 So I'm going to prioritize by cost this time.
 And for reference, again, the order of visit
 is this order here that is purely based on the cost
 to each of the nodes, starting from Las Vegas.
 So, how about UCS?
 UCS prioritizes by cost, so we're
 going to start from Las Vegas, and we're
 going to explore which would be the shortest
 path, or the shortest cost to reach the city of Calgary.
 So from Las Vegas, we can spend 66 kilometers
 to get to Los Angeles, or we can spend 89
 to go to the city of Salt Lake City.
 OK?


So obviously, you're going to pick 66,
 because it's the shortest.
 From Los Angeles, we could go to either San Francisco-- San
 Francisco, with the cost of 100, which make the path 166--
 or to Phoenix, with the path of 109, which
 would make 66 plus 109, or to the city
 of El Paso with a cost of
 So in all of these, 89 is best.
 So we're going to go now through-- remember it's kind
 of level by level, but jagged.
 So I'm going to go through Salt Lake City
 now, because this is the shortest cost I have so far.
 Salt Lake City, I will go through the possibilities
 of Helena, Portland, and Denver.
 Denver is
 Helena is
 And Portland is
 So I'm going to still keep comparing the elements.
 So after Las Vegas, Los Angeles, Salt Lake City,
 after Salt Lake City, I'm going to go to San Francisco,
 right, because that's actually-- comparing
 all the total of the costs are going to go to San Francisco
 better, because it's going to be 166, which is the shortest.
 So we've got the idea.
 So we're going to keep going by prioritizing by the shortest
 cost.
 And for reference, the order of visits
 would be the set of cities given here.
 


至此，我们讲清了这三种不同的搜索算法．





