2.4--Examples of Problem Formulation

As an example of problem formulation,

let's consider the eight queen problem again.

So it's a game.

And in this game, we start with an empty board.

And the players take turns into putting the queen on the board.

And the goal is to have a board with eight queens on the board

where no one is attacking another one diagonally,

vertically, or horizontally.

So the state is any arrangement of zero

to eight queens on the board.

And we know how much is this.

This is 68 times 67 times-- times 57 possible arrangements

of having zero to eight queens on the board.

1. The initial state is having an empty board in which no one put
2. a queen yet on the board.
3. The actions is simply each player
4. adding a queen on the board on an empty square.
5. So this is all the possible valid actions.
6. You can't, for example, push one queen
7. and replace it by another one.
8. The transition model is the updated board.
9. And finally, the goal test is a test
10. that allows us to say whether the eight queens on the board,
11. none of them is attacked.
12. So it's a test that compares equal queen with respect
13. to the other ones and says whether the goal test is found
14. and there is no queens attacked by either one.
15. A famous story example in search problems
16. is called the eight puzzle, in which we have a puzzle.
17. It's a board of three by three.
18. And each square has a number, except one of them that's free.
19. It's possible to move the squares around.
20. So the idea is to start with some initial state
21. and reach a goal state.
22. So here's a possibility.
23. So for example, we could start with this first board
24. on the left.
25. That has actually the number zero to seven not in order.
26. And we want to be able to move squares around
27. until we reach the goal, which is the numbers ordered
28. from zero to seven, something from this middle, top square.
29. So this could be a possible start state.
30. And this could be a possible goal state.
31. Let's now formalize the problem of the eight puzzle.
32. So first of all, what are the states?
33. The state is any configurations of the eight tiles on the three
34. by three gird.
35. So the location of each of the tiles
36. in the three by three grids represent the possible states.
37. The initial state is any state we want to start with.
38. So this is a possibility of an initial state
39. in which we have this configuration of numbers
40. on the grid.
41. But it could be anywhere we start.
42. The action is, we have only four possibilities.
43. Here is to move left, right, up, or down.
44. So because of the shape of the grid
45. and the fact that there is only one square that's empty,
46. we could only do this kind of possible actions.
47. A transition model is, given a state and action,
48. it will return a resulting state.
49. So if we are in the state and we move the zero to the left,
50. we are transitioning this state from one state to another one.
51. The goal state-- in this case, we
52. pick this to be a goal state-- is a state
53. that actually matches the goal.
54. So whenever we are exploring the search space for ways
55. to move the tiles, we are going each time
56. to test, when we reach a state in the game,
57. whether we are reaching actually the goal state.
58. The path cost, finally, is the total number of moves.
59. For example, if we want to organize these tiles
60. by increasing order from zero to seven,
61. we don't want to spend a long time doing that.
62. So this can be assessed by the number of moves.
63. So the total number of moves where each one costs one
64. could be an assessment of how well we
65. are doing in reaching the goal.
66. And typical applications of search agent
67. is routing problems.
68. So suppose we have a map on which we have cities.
69. And you want to go from a city to another one.
70. So you need to use a search agent that
71. helps you find your route or your way going from one city
72. to another one.
73. So this is an example of the North American cities
74. that actually is inspired by the example of Romania
75. in the book from Russell and Norvig.
76. So we picked North America in our case.
77. So suppose we are in the city of Boston.
78. And you want to reach the city of Denver.
79. Can you help me find a path or way from Boston to Denver?
80. So a search agent typically will search
81. for possible successful path that will lead me
82. from Boston to Denver.
83. So it could be, for example, this path here, right?
84. It could be going this way.
85. Or it could be going that way, right?
86. So there are different ways, different path
87. that lead from the point A to point B, all right?
88. So typically, let's formulate the problem.
89. In this case, we have the state is being in any of the cities
90. on the map.
91. So cities could be Los Angeles, San Francisco, Denver,
92. New York, Boston, et cetera.
93. The initial state in our example-- I'm in Boston.
94. I want to reach Denver.
95. So how can I do that?
96. My initial state is being in Boston, right?
97. And the actions I can do if I'm in Boston-- so this is here--
98. is to go to New York or to Montreal.
99. So these are the two possible actions.
100. But you can also-- in any other state,
101. you could go to Salt Lake City.
102. So going in any city is a valid action in the problem.
103. Transition model tells us if we are in a city
104. and we go to another one, where we end up.
105. So for example, the results of being in Boston
106. and going in New York brings us to being in New York, OK?
107. The goal test is being in Denver.
108. This is what I want to achieve.
109. I'm in Boston.
110. I want to get in Denver.
111. The path cost if I want to spend a long time, because you have
112. seen that there are many ways to go from Boston to Denver,
113. is to count, for example, the path length in kilometers.
114. So how much did it take me to go from Boston to Denver?
115. And you want to have-- you know, we
116. could think about getting the solutions,
117. but getting also the solutions with the least cost
118. or the least number of kilometers.