## 2.5--State Space vs. Search Space

Beside these small games and toy examples,

such problems occur in many real-world applications,

in which we need to devise some search algorithms in order

1. to find some solutions to problems.

2. These problems include routes finding problem,

3. in which, typically, this is our map search problem,

4. where we need to go from location to another one,

5. using links or transitions on a map.

6. Examples of applications include tools

7. for driving directions in websites, in-car systems, etc.

8. A second popular application of search algorithms

9. is traveling salesperson problem,

10. in which the goal is to find the shortest path, or the shortest

11. tour to visit each city exactly once.

12. So you have someone who is a salesperson.

13. And he doesn't want to go through cities several times.

14. So the goal is to find such a shortest path.

15. This is the goal of the search.

16. It's known as an NP-hard problem in computer science,

17. and there have been lots of efforts and research

18. in finding a smart algorithm to find such a short path.

19. But this is typically a search problem

20. in artificial intelligence.

21. A third very successful applications of search problems

22. is VLSI layout.

23. That's actually a very technical aspect

24. in which we need to position millions of components

25. and connections on a chip to minimize the area,

26. shorten the delays, et cetera.

27. The aim is then to put the circuit components on a chip,

28. so as they don't overlap.

29. And so you leave some space to the wiring and the connections.

30. This is typically a very complex problem.

31. And the goal is to optimize the area

32. and optimize the position of the components

33. with respect to each other.

34. Robot navigation is another special case

35. of route finding for robots, with no specific routes

36. or connections.

    We don't have the math to rely on to go from point A to B,

    rather we have a continuous space in 2D or 3D,

37. in which the robot needs to navigate and move around.

38. So the state space and actual space here up with actually

39. infinite, and need to optimize the search through this space

40. to find the best to find the path to the goal

41. that we want to achieve, which is moving the robot from one

42. point to another one.

43. Another successful applications of such problems

44. is the automatic assembly sequencing,

45. in which the goal is to find an order in which

46. to assemble parts of an object, which is generally

47. a difficult problem, because you can't undo it.

48. If you undo it, you need to disassemble

49. what you have done so far.

50. So it's an extensive and expensive geometric search

51. of the different possible sequence

52. of actions for which you need to make the assembly of the object

53. parts.

54. And last successful applications of search in AI

55. is protein design, in which the goal

56. is to find a sequence of amino acids

57. that will fold into a 3D protein with the right properties

58. to cure some diseases.

59. So this is a typical application in which

60. we are going to search for possibilities to find

61. a sequence of amino acids.

62. So I give you here just a few examples of applications

63. to cite, just some of them, but the potential applications

64. of search algorithms in AI is quite large.

65. So now that we have seen some typical examples of AI,

66. some toy examples and also real-world examples, let's dive

67. into the more technical aspect of search problems in AI,

68. and see how this is achieved let's

69. say, for route finding on the map.

70. So first of all, it's important to distinguish

71. between what we call the state space and the search space.

72. The state space is typically the physical configuration.

73. This is where the different states in which problem

74. is evolving.

75. So for the example of the eight queen,

76. for example, you have the state space

77. would be the set of all possible boards on which you

78. have the numbers moved somehow.

79. So for example, you could start with 1, 2, 0, 3, 4, 5, 7, 1, 2, 3,

80. 4, 5, 6.

81. This could be one possibility.

82. Another one could be where the one is here, the two

83. here, the three etc.

84. So all possible configurations of your problem

85. constitute the physical configuration of the state

86. space of the problem.

87. In contrast, a search space is an abstract configuration

88. of the problem, which actually is

89. represented by what we call the search tree or a graph, right?

90. So this is actually modeling the possible solutions

91. to the problem.

92. The search space is typically represented

93. by search tree that actually models the sequence of actions.

94. The search tree would look like something

95. like the root that represent, actually, the initial states.

96. From the initial states, you have

97. branches that actually lead you to other notes, that could also

98. lead to other notes, OK?

99. So the branches represent the actions that we could do.

100. These are the actions.

101. For example, drive from city A to city B,

102. or just slide the tile on the eighth puzzle, if you know.

103. The branches typically are the action

104. that we can do to move from some state to the one, OK?

105. So we have nodes.

106. Each node has, typically, a parent.

107. It has children.

108. It has some depth, right?

109. It also has a state in the state space.

110. So remember the state space is the physical configuration.

111. So if you are moving a tile on the eighth puzzle,

112. here you have the configurations of the tiles.

113. And here you have, when you do this action, for example,

114. moving, sliding the one from left to right,

115. will bring to another configuration.

116. So a node, typically has this important information,

117. which is parent, children, depth, path cost,

118. and the associated state in the state space.

119. So keep this in mind when you design your search problem.

120. Finally, when we define the function that's called expand,

121. that given a node, creates all the children for those nodes.

122. So this is what defines, actually,

123. the problem formation of the state and the search space.

124. More specifically, the search space,

125. often represented by a search tree,

126. is divided into three regions.

127. The explored region is actually also called

128. the closed list, or the visited set,

129. is all the nodes that are already

130. visited in the search tree.

131. The frontier is actually also called

132. the fringe or the open list, is what is about to be explored.

133. That's getting ready in a line, or in what we

134. call the frontier, and ready to be explored next.

135. And finally, we call unexplored nodes

136. those that are remaining yet to be explored in the search

137. space.

138. So the essence of the search is moving

139. from the nodes from regions three to two to one.

140. So this is really going this way.

141. So we start with everything in the search

142. space that is unexplored.

143. We are going to move them as depending on the search

144. strategy that we adopt, move them into the fringe,

145. and then move them into the state of being explored.

146. So this is really an important piece of information

147. when you develop and you implement the algorithms

148. for search, which is, if you want to do,

149. you have a full tree that you are going to explore.

150. But then you would have to decide how to explore them.

151. So they are all says unexplored, and then you're

152. going to move them depending on your search strategy, which

153. is the order of moves into the frontier,

154. and then to the state stage of being explored.

155. In the following, we adopt some color

156. coding to show on the search tree

157. when we explore the search space.

158. So we are going to show with the orange nodes

159. all the explored nodes.

160. The elements on the frontier or the nodes on the frontier

161. would be coded in gray.

162. And finally, the unexplored node would be left white.

163. Black would be used to present the failures

164. on the-- a node in which there was a failure on the search

165. space.

 