## 2.6--Tree Search and Examples of Search Agents

Beside these small games and toy examples,

such problems occur in many real-world applications,

in which we need to devise some search algorithms in order

to find some solutions to problems.

These problems include routes finding problem,

in which, typically, this is our map search problem,

where we need to go from location to another one,

using links or transitions on a map.

Examples of applications include tools

for driving directions in websites, in-car systems, etc.

A second popular application of search algorithms is **traveling salesperson problem,**

in which the goal is to find the shortest path, or the shortest

tour to visit each city exactly once.

So you have someone who is a salesperson.

And he doesn't want to go through cities several times.

So the goal is to find such a shortest path.

This is the goal of the search.

It's known as an NP-hard problem in computer science,

and there have been lots of efforts and research

in finding a smart algorithm to find such a short path.

But this is typically a search problem

in artificial intelligence.



A third very successful applications of search problems

is **VLSI layout**.

That's actually a very technical aspect

in which we need to position millions of components

and connections on a chip to minimize the area,

shorten the delays, 等等

其目标 is then to put the circuit components on a chip,

so as they don't overlap.

And so you leave some space to the wiring and the connections.

This is typically a very complex problem.

And the goal is to optimize the area

and optimize the position of the components

with respect to each other.



Robot navigation is another special case

of route finding for robots, with no specific routes

or connections.

We don't have the math to rely on to go from point A to B,

rather we have a continuous space in 2D or 3D,

in which the robot needs to navigate and move around.

So the state space and actual space here up with actually

infinite, and need to optimize the search through this space

to find the best to find the path to the goal

that we want to achieve, which is moving the robot from one

point to another one.



Another successful applications of such problems

is the automatic assembly sequencing,

in which the goal is to find an order in which

to assemble parts of an object, which is generally

a difficult problem, because you can't undo it.

If you undo it, you need to disassemble

what you have done so far.

So it's an extensive and expensive geometric search

of the different possible sequence

of actions for which you need to make the assembly of the object

parts.

And last successful applications of search in AI

is protein design, in which the goal

is to find a sequence of amino acids

that will fold into a 3D protein with the right properties

to cure some diseases.

So this is a typical application in which

we are going to search for possibilities to find

a sequence of amino acids.



So I give you here just a few examples of applications

to cite, just some of them, but the potential applications

of search algorithms in AI is quite large.

So now that we have seen some typical examples of AI,

1. some toy examples and also real-world examples, let's dive
2. into the more technical aspect of search problems in AI,
3. and see how this is achieved let's
4. say, for route finding on the map.
5. So first of all, it's important to distinguish
6. between what we call the state space and the search space.
7. The state space is typically the physical configuration.
8. This is where the different states in which problem
9. is evolving.
10. So for the example of the eight queen,
11. for example, you have the state space
12. would be the set of all possible boards on which you
13. have the numbers moved somehow.
14. So for example, you could start with 1, 2, 0, 3, 4, 5, 7, 1, 2, 3,
15. 4, 5, 6.
16. This could be one possibility.
17. Another one could be where the one is here, the two
18. here, the three etc.
19. So all possible configurations of your problem
20. constitute the physical configuration of the state
21. space of the problem.
22. In contrast, a search space is an abstract configuration
23. of the problem, which actually is
24. represented by what we call the search tree or a graph, right?
25. So this is actually modeling the possible solutions
26. to the problem.
27. The search space is typically represented
28. by search tree that actually models the sequence of actions.
29. The search tree would look like something
30. like the root that represent, actually, the initial states.
31. From the initial states, you have
32. branches that actually lead you to other notes, that could also
33. lead to other notes, OK?
34. So the branches represent the actions that we could do.
35. These are the actions.
36. For example, drive from city A to city B,
37. or just slide the tile on the eighth puzzle, if you know.
38. The branches typically are the action
39. that we can do to move from some state to the one, OK?
40. So we have nodes.
41. Each node has, typically, a parent.
42. It has children.
43. It has some depth, right?
44. It also has a state in the state space.
45. So remember the state space is the physical configuration.
46. So if you are moving a tile on the eighth puzzle,
47. here you have the configurations of the tiles.
48. And here you have, when you do this action, for example,
49. moving, sliding the one from left to right,
50. will bring to another configuration.
51. So a node, typically has this important information,
52. which is parent, children, depth, path cost,
53. and the associated state in the state space.
54. So keep this in mind when you design your search problem.
55. Finally, when we define the function that's called expand,
56. that given a node, creates all the children for those nodes.
57. So this is what defines, actually,
58. the problem formation of the state and the search space.
59. More specifically, the search space,
60. often represented by a search tree,
61. is divided into three regions.
62. The explored region is actually also called
63. the closed list, or the visited set,
64. is all the nodes that are already
65. visited in the search tree.
66. The frontier is actually also called
67. the fringe or the open list, is what is about to be explored.
68. That's getting ready in a line, or in what we
69. call the frontier, and ready to be explored next.
70. And finally, we call unexplored nodes
71. those that are remaining yet to be explored in the search
72. space.
73. So the essence of the search is moving
74. from the nodes from regions three to two to one.
75. So this is really going this way.
76. So we start with everything in the search
77. space that is unexplored.
78. We are going to move them as depending on the search
79. strategy that we adopt, move them into the fringe,
80. and then move them into the state of being explored.
81. So this is really an important piece of information
82. when you develop and you implement the algorithms
83. for search, which is, if you want to do,
84. you have a full tree that you are going to explore.
85. But then you would have to decide how to explore them.
86. So they are all says unexplored, and then you're
87. going to move them depending on your search strategy, which
88. is the order of moves into the frontier,
89. and then to the state stage of being explored.
90. In the following, we adopt some color
91. coding to show on the search tree
92. when we explore the search space.
93. So we are going to show with the orange nodes
94. all the explored nodes.
95. The elements on the frontier or the nodes on the frontier
96. would be coded in gray.
97. And finally, the unexplored node would be left white.
98. Black would be used to present the failures
99. on the-- a node in which there was a failure on the search
100. space.