## 2.7--Breadth first search

In this lecture, we're going to explore together

**uninformed search**, which are search agents that do not

require domain knowledge to search through the search space.

So there are different strategies adopted

in an uninformed search.

It could be a breadth-first search,

or called **BFS**, in which we expand in the search

space the shallowest node.

Depth-first search or DFS, expands the deepest node.

We could do something that's combined

in which we have some depth-first search

with some limit.

Interactive-deepening search allows

us to do a depth-limited search within an increasing limits.

And finally, we could expand the least cost node,

but in the uniform cost search strategy.

Let's start first with BFS search.

So in BFS search, as I said, we expand the shallowest node

first.

Shallowest means that the ones that are on the top.

Just to keep in mind, the shallowest node

means that we need to do some kind of level wide search

in the search space.

1. So we're going to go from level to level,
2. and we wouldn't go to the next level
3. unless the previous level is all done.
4. So to illustrate concept, let's take
5. an example of the simple tree which
6. actually is a binary tree.
7. Each node has two children, and the nodes go from A to O.
8. So initially, we are going to have an initial state that's
9. the state of the A, and this state would actually
10. be put in the fringe because it's not the goal test yet, OK.
11. So, is A the goal test?
12. It's not.
13. Then you're going to actually put it in the fringe
14. and explore it.
15. So the next thing is to explore this node,
16. and also we explore this node, we're
17. going to put it's children, B and C in the fringe.
18. So now we have two nodes, B and C, in the waiting list.
19. So the next thing to do is to explore B, and then C.
20. But first of all, let's explore B. B is explored now,
21. so which means that we are checking its status
22. with respect to the goal test.
23. If it is the goal test, we stop.
24. If it's not, we're going to expand it and have
25. the children, D and E, joining the fringe.
26. But because C was in the fringe first, the next step to do
27. is to really explore C. So C would be explored.
28. It has the children, F and G, which
29. will be joining the fringe.
30. The next one to be explored is D because it was in the fringe
31. first.
32. So D would be explored.
33. It's children are H and I, and then
34. the next one to-- so we have now, three,
35. five elements in the fringe, with F and G being actually
36. before the notes H and I.
37. We're going to expand next the E.
38. The E has two children, J and K, and then we can go in.
39. The next note to expand-- so all these guys here
40. are in the fringe.
41. The next one would be the F, and we explore it,
42. and then we explore the H. So we see that at each time,
43. we wouldn't go to the next level,
44. unless the previous level is done.
45. So we're going to explore the G and then we're
46. going to go back and go to the fringe, and H was before.
47. So H is a leaf, but it's not the goal test,
48. so it's going to turn into a failure.
49. So this path actually will lead to a failure.
50. I'm going to check the next one, I, and so on, and so forth.
51. So it's kind of doing level by level until we reach
52. the goal in the search space.
53. The way to implement the BFS is through this algorithm,
54. called breadth-first search.
55. You recognize that this is very similar to the tree search
56. algorithm we have seen before, in which
57. we are going to add things in the fringe and test them,
58. and then also include the notes and the neighbors,
59. and so on and so forth.
60. It's very similar, except for the lines
61. in which we are going.
62. It's an implementation detail to do a BFS,
63. so we're going to put that into a specific detect structure
64. so as we could really respect this order of visiting
65. the nodes that is going BFS.
66. OK, so the main differences are this line here
67. that actually creates a queue for the frontier.
68. This one that actually the queue from the frontier,
69. and this one that's actually in queue in the frontier.
70. So just in case you have never seen queues before,
71. it's a specific data structure that looks like this list here.
72. It's typically an ordered list of similar elements
73. that are in order that's what do you call, FIFO, which is first
74. in, first out.
75. So we're going to respect the order in which we
76. put the elements in the fringe, or in the waiting room
77. to be tested.
78. OK so we're going to put from the rear of the queue,
79. and we're going to take from the front of the queue.
80. The actions are taken from the front is called dequeue,
81. and the actions of putting things in the rear of the queue
82. is called enqueue.
83. OK?
84. So typically we're going to add the nodes
85. to be explored in the fringe.
86. So the fringe would be simply this FIFO list,
87. that actually respects the order in which we
88. put the elements, again.
89. OK, so initially we're going to dequeue the elements
90. from the front, test it, and then if it's a goal test
91. we're going to declare success.
92. If it's not, we're going to include its neighbors.
93. We're going to enqueue them from the rear,
94. so as the old ones would be having priorities.
95. So it's very similar to the tree search,
96. except that actually we respect the order in which we
97. put the elements.
98. In the fringe through this test structure,
99. which is actually a queue.
100. So first of all, is it complete?
101. Yes, it is.
102. If b is finite, which means that the maximum branching factor is
103. finite, we don't have an infinite space
104. to explore, the process or the search strategy
105. is complete because we are going to find the solution,
106. if it exists.
107. Second, the time and space complexity
108. can be measured in terms of number of nodes.
109. Remember that.
110. So the complexity is approximated
111. by the number of knows it all generated or expanded.
112. For example, if we have this kind
113. of binary tree, in which we have of depth, let's say,
114. zero, one, two, three.
115. So the number of nodes that has been expanded here
116. is one, for the first node.
117. Then two, then four, then eight, and so on and so forth.
118. So if the depth is if D is equal to three,
119. this means that actually we're going
120. to stop at the solution in the depth three.
121. So the depth would be at-- suppose
122. that this is the solution.
123. So if d is three, the maximum we could go
124. would be d equals three.
125. The branching factor here in this case
126. is b, and is equal two.
127. So if we do the math, it's going to be, actually, one plus two,
128. plus four, plus eight.
129. So it's going to be the time complexity.
130. The number of nodes that has been expanded
131. is one plus b plus b squared, plus b cubed, plus b to the d
132. where d is the depth of the solution,
133. so this would be the solution.
134. All right?
135. So we're going to the asymptotes, which
136. means that we're going to estimate what would
137. be the worst case scenario.
138. This is called the big O. The big O of the time complexity
139. would be the largest term in the time complexity here,
140. which would be b to the d. So this
141. would be an estimation of how time consuming is
142. the methodology.
143. So which is unfortunately, exponential.
144. Similarly, the space complexity is
145. a big O of b to the d for similar reasons,
146. and if the goal test is applied at expansion rather than
147. generation, then it would be an order of b to the d
148. plus one, which is pretty close.
149. It's also unfortunately, exponential in the space
150. of the number of nodes.
151. So now is it optimal?
152. So remember the optimality means does it always
153. find the least cost solution?
154. Yes, it does, if the cost is equal to one.
155. We are going to get-- to pick up the shallowest solution, which
156. would have necessarily the least cost solution.
157. So for the implementation detail,
158. we are going to implement that as a fringe, as a first in,
159. first out kind of list.
160. There is a mistake in my slides, sorry about that.
161. So it's not the stack, it's rather what we called a queue.
162. So it's a queue in which we are going
163. to put elements from the rear, and get elements
164. from the front.
165. Just respect the order.
166. This will allow us to go with the BFS approach.
167. So a question actually here is, if time and space
168. complexities are exponential, why do we even use BFS?
169. And the reason is it depends on the problem.
170. For some problems, the solution is so shallow
171. that it is much better to do a BFS, you get it sooner
172. and you won't get really this exponential complexity
173. in time and space.
174. So if the solution is shallow, and you
175. know that from the domain knowledge,
176. you could then use a BFS rather than going
177. very deep into the search space as with DFS
178. or other methods do.
179. OK, so it could be useful for some applications,
180. but in general it has exponential time and space
181. complexities.
182. So how bad is the BFS?
183. So first of all, let's estimate with some examples where
184. a branching factor let's say of 10.
185. How much would it be to use BFS in terms of time complexity
186. and space complexity?
187. So it's going to be in terms of seconds or days,
188. in terms of kilobytes or more.
189. OK?
190. So first of all, let's suppose that we
191. have the following assumptions.
192. So suppose we have a branching factor of 10,
193. and we process 1 million of nodes per second.
194. It says to estimate the time.
195. And finally, we also use 1000 bytes
196. to represent each node in the search space.
197. So for this specific configuration,
198. we'll have something like-- so we have a rule that actually
199. is branching to 10 possible nodes, so the first 10
200. children.
201. Each child has also a maximum of 10 children.
202. So that's the same branching factor.
203. That's also b.
204. So remember the complexity is b to d,
205. in terms of number of nodes.
206. So we're going to actually calculate
207. for-- so this is the level, this is level zero.
208. This would be level zero, level one, level two.
209. So that would be the d, that would be the depth.
210. So that that's going to be actually for the first node
211. we'd have, if we do the total, it's
212. going to be 10 possibilities.
213. For the second level, we will have-- so that
214. would be for the first level.
215. For the second level we'd have 10
216. to the two, which would be 100.
217. So the total would be actually 110 node generated
218. for depth equal to two.
219. So I've got to do the similar process,
220. and you could say that actually the number can go really
221. exponentially.
222. For depth of 16, we would need to store 10 to the 16 nodes.
223. Given that each node will have a 1,000 bytes to represent it,
224. that's going to represent 10 exabytes of memory space
225. requirement.
226. That's huge, and none of today's computers
227. have this capacity in memory.
228. How about the time?
229. Maybe the time is better?
230. No, it's also exponential.
231. So time is also b of d, and if it
232. goes at 1 millions of nodes are processed per second,
233. we're going to end up with a time of 350 years
234. to process breadth-first search, and reach a depth of 16.
235. This is huge.
236. Nobody has such a machine and nobody
237. has 350 years to wait until BFS gives an answer, assuming it
238. has to reach the depth of 16.
239. That's actually bad news, which makes actually
240. a memory requirement an exponential time
241. complexity as the main and biggest handicap of BFS.
242. But as I said, in some applications the answer is not
243. in depth 16, it's shallower, which
244. means we are going to get the answer easier.
245. So if it's at the sixth depth, you're
246. going to just spend 1.1 second, and you're
247. going to use 1 gigabytes, which just sounds reasonable.