## 2.8--深度优先搜索　(DFS)
学习了BFS,我们来看DFS.
DFS代表depth-first search，深度优先搜索.
使用DFS时，我们不再沿着搜索树一层一层地搜索了．
而是先深入树的某一个分枝，然后再回来，接着再深入另一个分支,......
And so we’re going to explore the deepest node first.
So in a similar example that we had before.
So suppose we have again the binary tree, search tree,
in which we have A through
So this is how it's going to be explored.
我们从A开始, A也就是根结点.
We're going to put that in the fringe it's grey.
So then it's expanded we test whether that it's the goal.
It's not.
And we are going to expand it into B and C.
But here observe that once we expand the B,
the B would be explained to D and E.
And so far what we have in the fringe C, E and D.
This is similar to BFS so far.
But then given B, C, E and D, which one would we
be exploring next?
It's not going to be C nor E, it's going to be D.
And the reason is that we're not going
to give priority to the first who get into the fringe,
we're going to pick, actually the newest we
added to the fringe.
So from D I'm going to go deeper and test
the H. If the H is not the goal test,
I'm going to backtrack and test the I,
if it's not the I'm going to backtrack,
declare this as not a successful path.
And go back and test the E. So from the E I'm
going to test the J and K. Start by J, if it's not a success,
I try the K. So you see that actually you
are going to try this way, go even deeper in the search tree
until actually we reach either failure or meet our goal tests.
And we're done.
So this is completely different from the BFS
in which we were doing rather level by level in the search
space.
So the corresponding algorithm, again very,
very similar to tree search.
Very, similar to BFS search.
Except that this time we’re going
to use something different to handle the fringe.
We don't want anymore a queue, because a queue
has the property that the first is the first out.
We want this time to go deeper, so the first is not
the first out, it's the last out.
So in this case, we're going to change
the way we put the information.
And this is we're going to use a stack, so this is the stack.
So the frontier is a stack.
We're going to here pop information
from the top of the stack.
And here push some information in the stack.
The the structure works is as follows:
So this is our stack.
Our stack acts like a pile of plates.
So in the stack you're going to push the information inside,
so that's the push.
We'll add the information in the stack.
And we're going to pop the information from the top,
 so which means that the last in is it first out,
 this is a L-I-F-O, LIFO data of structure.
 The last in, is first out.
 So this is a push, is a pop.
 这将帮我们实现DFS,
 这就是说我们将增加这些结点.
 And the first one that had been popped from the list,
are really the last ones, which means
 that we are going to explore first the more in-depth node
 than the shallowest nodes.
 栈结构是另一种类型的列表,其特点是后进先出(last in, first out).
 
 主要的差别是 我们将新建一个栈,
 无论何时我们想要测试或者fringe中的元素时，我们提取出(pop) 信息.
 我们将把此结点的子结点们添加到frontier中.
 by doing the push comment into the LIFO.
 We're going to push the elements in the frontier
 by doing push instruction for the stack.
 So this is typically a stack and this is actually
 an implementation detail that makes the difference
 between BFS and DFS.
 

Now how about DFS criteria, is it as bad as BFS?
 So let's check it out.
 第一个问题， DFS是完备的吗?
 在绝大多数情形，是的．
 Assuming we are careful in actually making sure
 that we are not going to do repeated states.
 So, no if we fail in infinite depth spaces.
 Because we are going to go first deep into space.
 And if there is, for example, from Los Angeles
 to go to San Francisco, then to Los Angeles--
 If we do that we never finish, because we're going
 very deep in the search tree.
 But if we're careful and when in graph search,
 this won't happen.
 So it's complete in finite spaces.
 

其次，对于时间和空间复杂性,
 很不幸, DFS仍然是指数型复杂度.
 It's even worse, actually, than a regular BFS.
 And the reason is that we're actually
 going to not only go into the depth of the solution,
 we're going to go deeper into m, which
 is the maximum possibility of the search space.
 What happened for DFS is that it can now actually explore
 the path all the way til the bottom of the search space,
 backtrack, and again go back, and then
 go back until possibly, at some point,
 meet the solution that's actually at some position,
 at some level, d.
 So if BFS it was b to the d, in the case of DFS,
 it's b to m, which is the maximum possibility
 because it's very likely we are going to go all the way down
 at least once.
 So if m is much larger than d, then it's
 a big problem because we're going to spend lots of time.
 But if they are both close, we are going, actually,
 to be faster than BFS.
 And the reason is that for BFS, we
 are going to do this kind of search
 until we reach a solution all the way down.
 So we're going to have really a long time explaining
 everything.
 Well, however, for DFS, we are going to go actually deeper.
And we will find the solution sooner.
Space complexity is the big good news, which is linear in space.
So there's no need to actually store
everything such as in BFS, in the worst-case scenario.
Here, we are going to actually explore.
Suppose we have this kinds of tree.
So I have a branching factor of b.
So the way DFS works is to really go as deep as possible.
So I'm going to go deeper and deeper.
So each time, we have a branching factor b.
But this time, we're going to put all these elements also
in the fringe.
This has to be in the fringe as well.
So we are going to have a branching factors times,
actually, the number of, actually,
the depth m, which is m here.
That would be multiplied by the branching factor
since this has to be also to be in the fringe.
So we need to store only a single path.

And that's why we are going to have b*m.

This b times m is happening because we
have-- all the siblings has to be in the fringe
to be ready to be explored next.


So it's a list that is last in, first out
because we need to go deeper in the hierarchy
or in the tree to be able to do the depth-first search.
So how bad is DFS depth-first search?
Recall it's as bad as BFS.
So this is a table for BFS we have seen before.
So it's as bad as BFS in terms of time.
So that's really a long time to wait
to get an answer that is very deep into the tree search.
A depth of  is years of weight.
However, there's the good news here
that we know that the complexity in terms of memory usage
is  exabytes for BFS.
But in the case of DFS, it's going to be much smaller.
So if we take depth equals -- so remember that we have,
actually, a complexity of b times m, m being the depth.
So we are going to have a branching factor of  times
, which will present
We need to apply that by the number of bytes
we use for each node, which will make
So we divide by  which
is the size of a kilobyte.
And it's going to be actually roughly equal to kilobytes.
This is huge gain.
We go from  exabyte-- that's absolutely
impossible with today's architectures--
into kilobytes.
That's really excellent news.

现在，我们简单看看深度优先搜索法的两种变体.

It's going to be just giving you an idea of how-- what
are the extensions of DFS that actually
takes some advantage of BFS.
第一种称为受限深度搜索(depth-limited search),
其含义是在执行DFS时，加上一个条件：深度有上限，设为 l.
因此，第l层的结点无后继结点．这在操作上的意义：执行深度优先搜索时，如果我们达到了某一深度，我们将在某一结点停下来.
So we're going to select first some limit in depth
and to explore with a depth-first search
for that limit.
So this avoids to actually do a finite search in case
we can't handle the loops.

另一种变体称为迭代加深(iterative deepening)

这种方法中，我们将增加极限 l.
可见，迭代加深法其实是BFS和 DFS的组合.