## 2.9--Depth-limited Search

Methods like depth-limited search and iterative deepening
are particularly useful 如果我们有一些关于待解决问题的知识.
也许我们不必搜遍搜索树的所有深度.
例如, 在这幅地图中, if we
 know that any city can be reached from another city
 within some limit, at most L steps,
 which where L is less than 36 in the example,
 so maybe we don't need to go through as deep in the search
 tree, and just limit it to some limit L.
 Iterative deepening is an extension
 of depth-limited search that actually combines
 the benefits of BFS and DFS.
 So the idea is to iteratively increase the search limit
 until the depth of the shallowest solution
 d is reached.
 So which means that we're going to apply
 DLS with increasing limits.
 So, DLS, remember, it's a depth-first search
 until some limit.
 So in the case of iterative deepening,
 we are going to do a first tree until L,
 and then we are going to extend L.
 And then we are going to extend L again until we either
 find a solution, right, we stop because a solution is found,
 or if the algorithm DLS within the limit
 L returns a failure that there is no solution until the limit
 L.
 Because most of the nodes are at the bottom of the search tree,
 it's actually not a big waste to redo the whole thing
 until we either find a solution or we don't find it.
 So empirically, we see that basically it's
 not a big waste of resources to do that.
 So let's take an example with the depth
 limit between 0 and 3.
 So for limit 0, we are simply exploring the root node.
 So it's going to be simple.
 Limit 0 is just a strain of the root.
 For limit 1, we are going to do a DFS until limit 1.
 So we are going to start with the node A. We explore first,
 so we put B and C in the fringe.
 We explore B first and then C, and then
 after that, every node in the tree is explored.
 For limit 2, we're going to go deeper until the limit 2.
 So we're going to start over.
 From node A, we are going to add B and C to the fringe.
 Then, we explore-- we are doing a DFS,
 so we're going to explore B. From B,
 you are going to extend to get its children.
 So that's D and E. So we're going to have now in the fringe
 D, E, and C.
 Then, we are going to explore D, then E. So this subtree
 is explored.
 We turn to C. So remember, it's again a DFS.
 So at C, we're going to explore all the elements
 of C, which are F and G. These two are going in the fringe.
 So we explore first F and then first G.
 And after that, we have explored all-- by depth-first search,
 all the tree until the limit 2.
 So, for limit equal 3, we are going to start the process over
 again.
 So I start with the root node A. We
 put the children in the fringe.
 And we go deep into the algorithm
 so I'm going to explore-- I will just do it here.
 So we're going to explore this first path, then
 this second path, then this third path, et cetera.
 So we're going to do that.
 And this is actually a DFS up till limit equal three.
 But we started actually over, so we are going
 to do the whole tree again.
 That was for iterative deepening.
 You will get to play with this method in your programming
 assignment.
 You might have noticed that the arcs on the search graph
 may have some weight or cost.
 For example, it may be the distance between two cities.
 And so far, the search algorithms
 we have been using do not leverage this information.
 So how can we leverage this information
 to help the search to find the optimal solution?
 So remember, BFS we find the shallowest solution,
 which is the shortest path, which can be costly.
 What we want is the cheapest solution, not
 the shallowest solution.
 So the idea, then, is to modify BFS to prioritize by cost,
 rather than by prioritizing by depth, which
 means we're going to expand the node n with the lowest path
 cost, which we call g of n, rather than expanding it
 by the depth of the node.
 The approach is then to explore by increasing cost
 rather than by increasing depth, such as done by DFS.
 This method is called uniform cost search.
 The uniformed cost search algorithm
 is very similar to BFS in the sense
 that we are going to explore layer by layer.
 But in this case, we are going to use layers
 for uniform cost search will be determined by the cost g of n.
 So remember, g of n is the cost to go
 from the-- let's say the root of the search until the node n.
 So this is going to be the cost g of n.
 So this is how much we need to spend in terms of driving
 or other kinds of cost to each n.
 So, the search will now be driven by this function, f
 of n, which is only g of n.
 So, we use f of n to stay general.
 And the main reason is that the function
 f of n-- later on, we'll see it for A-star
 is slightly different.
 There'll be some other parameters
 that we take into consideration.
 All right?
 So remember, **BFS uses a queue**, which is simply
 a list in which we put the elements,
 and we pick them first in, first out.
 **In the case of UCS, we use a heap**,
 which is **a priority queue**, which means that we're
 going to pick them out of-- to pick the elements
 or the nodes from the fringe by prioritizing according
 to the function $g(n)$.
 So in this case, it's the main difference between UCS and BFS.
 
 So, we've got to create this heap.
 And this heap will include all the elements
 in the fringe, or the frontier.
 And whenever we need to pick an element,
 we pick the element with the minimum cost.
 The other difference is that we are going to also
 make sure to handle-- and whenever
 we add the elements in the frontier,
 we do the same thing as for BFS, but then
 if the neighbor is already in the frontier
 and we find the shortest path, then we
 are going to decrease the key.
 In other words, if you suppose we
 have nodes to which we are going to reach it in some cost,
 let's call it c-- and this cost is actually going
 with this node in the fringe.
 And if we found the shortest path-- let's
 say this one-- then we're going to make
 sure to decrease the cost because we found the shortest
 path to n than the previous cost.
 So other than that, the algorithm is very similar.
 Again, we are going to search by cost, not by depth.
 So there would be layers-- we are going to explore the search
 tree layer by layer, but these layers
 would be somehow jagged because they
 would be driven by the cost, by an increase in cost
 in the search.

### 举例 

To fix the idea, suppose we want to go from 重庆
 to 北京.
 So, if we do a BFS, we are going to find this two-step solution,
 which goes from 重庆 to 上海,
 再从上海到北京.
 cost of this solution $g(n)=$2200+1000=3200.

 So its going to be-- we need to spend 3200 km to get
 from 重庆 to 北京.
 If we use a BFS modified by cost, which is a uniform cost
 search, we are going to rather pick this path here,
 which is 重庆,成都,太原，北京.
 This is a path of size three, which would not
 be picked by BFS, but UCS will pick it
 because the distance, or the cost for this path
 would make a solution of 2300, which is cheaper than
 So UCS will pick this second path rather than
 the other path.