# 3.1 启发式搜索和贪婪搜索

## 3.1.1 启发式搜索

在启发式搜索中, 我们将利用一些专业知识．用这些专业知识，我们将问是否我们在靠近目标．

记住,对于盲目搜索(uniform-cost search),　我们并不知道我们离目标有多远！



So we kept exploring around the start state
until we reached the goal.
But we were really erring around that.
So the question is, are we getting to the goal?
And to respond to this question, we
could use what we call a heuristic
function that estimates how close a state is to the goal.
So a heuristic is not a perfect measure,
but it doesn't have to be perfect.
However, it turned out that it can be very useful
if you want to do the search.
So example of strategies include Greedy best-first search and A*
search, which you are going to see today.
And also, there are other extensions such as IDA,
which is Iterative Deepening A*, a variant of A*,
to do the search based on the heuristics.
In the map example, we could use a heuristic
that gives us the distance as a straight line
between the cities.
So for example, if our goal is to reach Sault Ste.
Marie, we are going to use this heuristics that
gives us the distance between any city and Sault Ste.
Marie.　Sault Ste. Marie is here.
We are going to have all these distances just in approximation
of how far is Sault Ste.Marie from this city.

So typically, Sault Ste.Marie to itself is 0.
But then we have--
this is in kilometers from all the other cities.

我们如何利用这个启发式算法来得到更好的搜索方法？　这就是 A*搜索方法和贪婪搜索方法.


## 3.1.2 贪婪搜索法

对于贪婪搜索,我们将利用一个评估函数h(n), 作为我们的启发函数(heuristic).
h(n) 估算了从n到最近的结点的成本(cost).
现在我们正在做搜索. 假设我们到达了结点n.

对结点n，我们可以给出一个估算．从结点n
到目标的估算--函数h(n) 告诉我们结点n距离目标多远．
例如, 在这幅地图中，我们的启发式函数是直线距离(straight line distance),简记为结点n的HSLD.
因此，从任意结点,我们需要知道
我们可以利用该启发函数，它告诉我们我们离目标城市(SSMarie)有多远．
它是从结点n到SSMarie的直线距离.
我们在搜索中就要用到这一点.
因此贪婪搜索将展开那些距离目标最近的结点．
So we're going to have different possibilities of exploring
the nodes, node 1, node 2.
We have h1 of n, h2 of n, and we are
going to prioritize by this h function
in order to pick the next node to explore.
Greedy search will use an algorithm
similar to UCS in the sense that we also are prioritizing
in a priority queue by some cost with the exception
that everything is similar except that the cost
in this time is actually based on h of n, the heuristic,
instead of it being based on the total cost of the path till n.
So we are going to change the cost from g of n to h of n.
And this is our Greedy search algorithm.
Let's check it on the example of the map.
So let's see how the Greedy search algorithm works
on the example with the map.
Starting from St. Louis, we want to go to Sault Ste.
Marie.
So the initial state is the state of St. Louis.
And this is put in blue here to say
that it has so far the shortest distance to the goal.
St. Louis is far with a straight distance
with 180 kilometers from Sault Ste.
Marie.
因此，我们将展开该结点.
It becomes explored.
We put it in orange by the color conventions we have decided.
So from St. Louis, we can go to Chicago, Kansas City,
Little Rock, or Nashville.
We are putting here the numbers that
are actually the straight distance between Chicago
and Sault Ste.
Marie the shortest distance between Kansas City,
and so on and so forth.
These are the heuristic numbers we had on the table before.
可见, Chicago是最好的选择, 因为从它到目标地SSMarie的直线距离是最近的:107.

We are going now to explore the city of Chicago.
So the children are Duluth, Omaha, Pittsburgh,
and St. Louis.
So St. Louis want to be put in the fringe
simply because it is already explored.
But the other ones that are in the fringe
are Omaha, Pittsburgh, Kansas City, Little Rock,
and Nashville, and also Duluth.
So among these cities that are actually in the fringe,
we are going to pick Duluth.
That seems to be the closest to the goal.
After that, we explore Duluth.
Duluth will have Chicago, Helena, Omaha, Sault Ste.
Marie, and Winnipeg.
So actually, Chicago is not added
because it's already explored.
However, Helena, Omaha, Sault Ste.
Marie and Winnipeg will be added.
So far, we have in the fringe these cities
in gray or in blue.
The blue means, actually, that this
is the best choice in terms of heuristic,
because it's actually Sault Ste.
Marie itself, we reach 0, which is the straight distance
between Sault Ste.
Marie and itself.
So the path would be really going from St. Louis to Chicago
to Duluth to Sault Ste.
Marie.
So this is how Greedy search would work.
On the map, it's going to look like this.
So the Greedy would go from Sault Ste.
Marie to Chicago to Duluth to Ste.
Marie, and the path in this case would be 104 plus 157 plus 110.
It's Greedy.
But we are not going to actually--
5, 6, 7, and 3.
So the path is actually 371 kilometers, which is actually
not the shortest one.
We are going to see that we can get the shortest one using
the A*算法.
第二个例子 that we give you with the map--
I'm not going to run the whole tree.
但在前面的例子中, 从Las Vegas到Calgary, 我们看到:
BFS, DFS,和UCS has been really erring around
to find a solution.
利用贪婪算法search, it's way straightforward.
It's much better.
With Greedy search, it's a better search
because we are going to--
we know some information about the goal.
So we're going to go straight to the goal.
The path that is successful-- it would be Las Vegas, Salt Lake
City, Helena, and Calgary, which actually is the shortest path
between Las Vegas and Calgary.
So in the previous example, we saw an informed search.
We had to go from Las Vegas to Calgary.
And we saw that we actually had been--
we had been going around to search for the best,
for the optimal path.
So using Greedy search, we are doing a better job
as we are going from Las Vegas to Salt Lake City,
from Salt Lake City to Helena, and then to Calgary.
So the path would be of 89 plus 116 plus 130.
Now, it seems like a better choice
than going all the way through to Atlanta
and then going back to Calgary.









我们已经发现一些-- a very long path or lots of search直到我们找到
Calgary.



# 3.1.3 A*搜索法

​	我们已看到贪婪搜索法做得很不错，但却不总是最好的方法.　例如, 在St. Louis和South St. Mary之间.
我们将无法得到到目标最近的路径.　因此，有没有另一个算法可以替代贪婪算法呢？ 答案就是 A* 搜索
算法．在该算法中，我们不仅用搜索启发函数(heuristic),也用到达结点n的成本(cost)．所以，为了将估算解的成本最小化,我们将g(n)与h(n) (h为到达结点n的成本). h(n)实际上就是从根结点到结点n的实际成本.

从结点n开始,我们想到达我们的目标(goal).　因此，我们将运用能估计出从结点n到目标的成本的启发函数.



A*搜索的基本思想是将g(n)和h(n)组合起来以得到f(n),
$$
f(n) = g(n) +h(n)
$$
f(n)用作执行搜索的成本. 因此f(n) and is act the estimated cost of the cheapest
solution through the node n.
因此，除了一点细节上的不同以外，A*算法与UCS算法，贪婪算法都非常相似！

这个不同就是：我们用的成本函数不同，为g(n)+h(n).　除此之外，其他方面都一样．



让我们来看看A*搜索算法如何工作．在我们的典型例子－－从St. Louis 到 S St. Marie.

在初始状态, 我们有St. Louis.　我们从St. Louis开始.　现在，到达St. Louis 的成本为０,因为这是初始态.
这就是说，现在我们有
$$
g(n) = 0.
$$
目前为止，接下来从St. Louis到 这个结点(XX)将是最便宜的路径(180), 180表示St. Louis和South St. Mary的直线距离.
So if we have South St. Mary somewhere here,
South St. Mary, the heuristic age
as we have seen in the table tells us
that a straight distance between the node St. Louis
to reach South St. Mary is equal to 180.
So combining g of n and h of n would give us
a total of 180 kilometers.
So the next step is after we explore St. Louis--
so we are going to put this node in orange
just say so that it is explored.
We're going to explore the children of St. Louis, which
would be Chicago, Kansas City, Little Rock, and Nashville.
So note that the distance between St. Louis and Chicago
is 104 kilometers, and the estimated
distance between Chicago and South St. Mary is actually 107.
So if you have South St. Mary here,
St. Mary, so the distance here is 107.
So this is actually g of Chicago, g of n,
considering our n is here.
g of n is equal to 104.
H of n is straight distance between Chicago
and South St. Mary is 107.
So the total distance, which would be f-off f of n,
is actually 104 plus 107.
So we're going to have this estimation for each
of the nodes in the fringe, and it turned out
that Chicago is the one we should go with because it has
the shortest distance, the shortest estimated costs, using
and g of n and h of n.
So next I'm going to explore Chicago.
Chicago has as children or as laborers Duluth,
Omaha, Pittsburgh.
We're not putting St. Louis because it
was already explored.
We also have Kansas City that was already in the fringe
Little Rock and Nashville.
We do a similar job in doing g of n and plus h of n,
and we get the distances that are actually represented here.
Next we're going to explore Kansas City.
We include in the fringe Denver, Oklahoma.
We don't include St. Louis because it's already explored.
We calculate the distance for Denver and Oklahoma
as the real distance between St. Louis and Denver
plus the estimated distance between Denver and St. Louis.
So that's the idea.
The process will repeat itself.
Among all the distances that we have between the cities that
are in the fringe, we're going to pick Little Rock
because it's the shortest.
So we explore Little Rock.
Same thing-- so all these nodes are actually in the fringe.
We're going to pick Nashville that
has only 306 kilometer estimated cost to the goal.
We explore Nashville.
Now we do the same thing.
The next one would be Pittsburgh.
Pittsburgh expands into New York, Chicago, Washington,
and Toronto. but we're not going to add Chicago
because it's already explored.
The shortest distance is Toronto,
which is actually a 251 kilometer estimated
from the goal.
So we keep going.
The children for Toronto are Montreal, Pittsburgh, and South
St. Mary Pittsburgh is not added because it
was explored previously.
The shortest distance among all the notes that you see here
in grey that are actually in the fringe is South St.
Mary that has had 251 total cost,
which means that this is actually g of n plus 0
because now the straight distance between South St.
Mary and itself is zero.
So g of n 251 is actually this path
that you have you see here.
So then we find the other goal by going
through this path, which would be actually the shortest
path to the goal.
So on the map you would have this configuration.
What you have is you start from St Louis.
This is what we had been exploring.
But then the distance in this case
would be a distance of 104 to get to Chicago plus 81
to get to Pittsburgh plus 80 to get to Toronto plus 90
to get to South St. Mary.
So the total would be 5, 5, 255 kilometers,
which would be actually the shortest
possible distance between St. Louis and South St. Mary.
So we found the optimal solution now using the A* algorithm.
If we do a similar process between Las Vegas and Calgary,
we find a similar path to greedy search.
So A* always find the optimal solution.
Greedy search sometimes hits the best solution
but sometimes does not.
So A* does a pretty good job at finding the optimal solution.
However, it must rely on a good heuristic
because a good heuristic can turn out
to be a powerful one that can lead us
to the optimal solution.
So a good heuristic is known to be powerful
if it has the property of being what we call admissible.
So what is an admissible heuristic?
It's a heuristic that never overestimates the cost
to reach the goal.
That is it is optimistic, so it always
has less than what it needs to reach the goal.

一个启发函数被称为admissible，如果对所有的结点n,
启发函数在该结点n的值is bounded by 从结点n到达目标所需的真实成本．

因此在地图例子中, 我们应用两城市之间的启发函数HSLD(straightest line distance).
这个启发函数是 admissible，因为它总是小于到达该结点的真实成本. 
我们可以举个例子来说明这一点．
如果我们有两个城市A， B，直线距离往往不是一个真实的构型！
It's just an estimation of the distance between A and B.
However, if you use a true path between A and B through roads,
you would end up with some path that actually links the two
cities, but whatever distance you take
将大于A与B之间的直线距离. 这是直线距离的一个有趣的特征:　它总是小于A与B之间真实路径的构型.



来看看 A*算法的搜索标准 .
A* is complete because if there is a solution,
you will find it.
And unfortunately, the time is still exponential,
and the space is still exponential.
And the main reason is that it keeps all the nodes at memory
to find the best possible solution
of the optimal solution, which is the biggest problem.
And you have seen in the previous example that actually
lots of nodes were grey because they are all in the fringe
waiting to be explored.
So there is a an important use of memory to solve the problem.
Finally, is it optimal?
Yes, it is optimal.
If there is a solution, we find that it
finds the best possible solution, which
is a solution with the least cost in your search.
So last note about heuristics.
We have seen heuristics in the context of maps.
Straight-line distance turned out to be a good to heuristic
when you explore the map.
In other contexts, you may need to find
other kinds of heuristic.
So let's take another example with the problem
of the 8-puzzle where you have a board
and you need to move the tiles around
to reach some goal state.
So suppose we start with this start state,
and we want to reach this goal state.
The idea is to move the tiles around--
up, down, left, and right-- until you put them
in this case in increasing order.
So the tiles are numbered between 1 and 8.
So if you want to solve this specific puzzle--
and not all of them can be solvable--
but if you want to solve this one,
you would find a solution to go from start state
to goal state in exactly 26 steps.
So this is the true cost, the optimal cost,
to reach the goal states starting from the start state.
So possible heuristics could be, for example,
using h1 of n, which is the number of misplaced tiles.
So you look at the start state, and you
see how many of the tiles are not at the right place as
compared to the goal state.
So for example, 2 is not in its place.
None of them is actually in its final stage,
so the total distance in this case, h1 of n
would be equal to 8, which represents
a number of misplaced tiles.
Another possibility is to use what we call the Manhattan
distance or the block distance.
This is the sum of the horizontal
and vertical distances.
In other words, how many movements do
you need to do per tile to get to the right position.
So it's called Manhattan because in Manhattan
when you go from place A to place B,
in general the indications are given in terms of blocks.
You can walk three blocks to get to the point B.
So this is a specific kind of counting distances.
So this is simply the sum of the horizontal and vertical
distance on the grid.
in this case, if we count the tiles 1-8,
we're going to calculate h2 of n,
in this case for the start state,
as actually the number of movements
needed you need to do to move each tile
to its final position.
So if we start with tile 1, we're
going to need to do 1, 2, 3 movements,
so that's going to be 3 for the first time.
For the second time, we to move it to the right.
It's going to be only 1 movement,
so this is it for the second one.
For the third, one they're going to need
to do 1, 2, 2 movements to actually move
the 3 to its final position 3, and so on and so forth.
So the total distance in this case
will be 18, which is also an underestimation
of the number of steps of 26.
So both H1 and H2 never overestimate the true cost
to find the solution.
I prefer h2 because it's closer as a number
to the real total number of steps.
Maybe this is too much of an underestimation.
But both of them are admissible and will
help solve the problem.
So this was where for heuristics.





在其他应用中,你也许需要找到启发函数的组合，并试图去设计和实现它(engineer).
但在所有情形,只要它是admissible,你将能用A*搜索法找到最优解.